Date: Tue, 3 Feb 2015
From: Alan Beale
Subject: Re: Some More Words I Could use your feedback on...

Here are some thoughts on some of these words:

flexion is a word of multiple meanings, none of which seem common to
me. Some of the meanings are medical.

Medical words of no special interest include intracranial,
angiotensin, synovial, bilirubin, endocarditis, cerebrovascular,
tympanic, pneumothorax, hyperthermia, subcortical, vasculature,
craniofacial, gingiva, cellulitis, immunocompromised, ectoderm,
neurovascular and bronchoscopy. Of these words, cellulitis and
synovial are the two that seem most likely to show up in text to be
spell-checked. I would suggest not including hyperthermia, due to the
conflict with hypothermia, which is a much more common word. (It shows
up in news stories about deaths due to exposure.)

eschatological is a good candidate. It wouldn't have surprised me a
bit if it had shown up in 2of12 (though it is in 5esl). It shows up in
political and religious writing, as well as in book and movie reviews.

Dalai is the first word of the phrase Dalai Lama. I don't know how you
handle phrases of that sort, but the phrase is not uncommon.

Easton is the name of both a mathematician (Easton's Theorem was at
one time of interest to me) and a publisher. However, both are
obscure. The name may well have greater significance in some other
field.

counterfactual is a familiar word, that shows up mostly in discussions
of science fiction. I don't know if it has escaped that ghetto or not.

kabbalah is a word well-known to me. But it is spelled umpteen million
different ways, and I don't know which way is most common. cabala
would be my guess.

Lankan would be from the phrase Sri Lankan, just like the conflicting
Lanka is probably from Sri Lanka.

Fukuyama is a famous writer on political science. He should probably
be in my names list.

Jacinto is from San Jacinto, a place in Texas and site of a famous
battle. At a guess, people discuss San Jacinto less than they discuss
the Dalai Lama.

Seeger is the name of a very famous folk singer. Can't believe he's
not in my names list!

nitro is of course short for nitroglycerin.

unweighted seems familiar to me. I think it's a statistical
word. Can't say how common it would be to the general populace.
