This directory contains numerous special word list which I have
created myself.

abbreviations:

A list of commonly used abbreviations and acronyms, especially in
conversational text such as email.

abbreviations-also:

Some additional abbreviations which I did not want to include at the
lower word list sizes.

frequent:

A combination of the two top 1000 lists found in the mwords package.
I carefully went though and weeded out words which where an artifact
of the corpus used.

letters:

A list of single letters and there inflected forms

names.from_alan_beale:

A list of names (version 5.2) sent to be by Alan Beale <biljir@pobox.com>:

  I have a large list of proper names, whose origins are in the
  linux-words proper names, but which both removes a lot of (what I
  considered to be) junk entries, and adds a lot of names of various
  sorts, notably names of commercial products and noteworthy
  historical personages.

never-abbreviations:

A list of words that I do not consider abbreviations.

never-variant:

A list of words I do not consider variants.

not-possessive:

A list of nouns which should not take a possessive form with "'s".

proper-names:

A list of additional proper names.

roman-numerals:

A list of roman numerous originally extracted from the ispell word
lists.

signature.35:

A small list of words that I thought really ought to be at the 35 level.

signature.??:

Additional words to add at the respective level.

marco-alan.??:

Words Marco A.G.Pinto proposed to add that Alan Beale also thought
should be added.  Words with 3 stars or more (see
app.aspell.net:/lookup-freq) are added at the 60 and others at the 70
level.

mozilla-alan.60:

Words found in the Mozilla dictionary than Alan also approved of.

extra.??:

Non-signature words suggested for inclusion by others that are
recognized by most dictionaries but not all that common.

macro-alan.70:

Words Marco A.G.Pinto and Alan Beale though should be added that I
(Kevin Atkinson) for one reason or another didn't want to add at the
60 level.  The most likely reasons are that the word is too similar to
a more common word or a compound word that is normally spelled as two
words or with a hyphen.

macro.80:

Words that are Macro added to en_GB not in one of the above lists.

unix-terms:

A list of commonly used unix terms often used as regular english words
by geeks.

variant:

A list of words which the 12dicts package does not consider variants
but I do.

not-upper:

Normal words that just happen to start with an uppercase words and 
have no relation to a proper name, for example OK AWOL

2800-ptr:

Words from "2800 Personality Trait Descriptors" (1967), see
https://sourceforge.net/p/wordlist/issues/60/

exclude.??:

Words to exclude up to the specified level (and hence bump them to the
next level.)  Used mostly for obscure words that are very similar to a
far more common word and hence could mask the misspelling of the more
common word.

hacker-exclude:

List of words found in the hacker category that are not found anywhere
in Google Book's corpus (1980-2008) and thus should in all likelihood
not be included considering "words" such as FTPing, grepped, etc. are
in the corpus.

prefixes:

Common prefixes that are often followed used with a dash.  For example
"multi-".  Note "pre" is left out as it is too close to "per" which is more
common.

phrase-parts:

Parts of common (generally Latin) phrases that are not normal words
themselves.

australian.35:

A list of extra Australian words added at the 35 level to the
"australian" spelling category.

chinese-names:
chinese-names.also:

A list of Chinese names from https://github.com/en-wl/wordlist/issues/203.
The ".also" file contains two word names I have not decided how to process.

cs.60

Common words found in Software Development and Computer Science contexes.

urban-areas:

U.S Urban areas as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Source https://www2.census.gov/geo/docs/reference/ua/ua_list_ua.txt (2019-08).

australian-towns:
australian-towns-part:

List of cities in Australia from
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_in_Australia_by_population
(2019-09-24).

neol2020:

A small list of Neologisms sent to be by Alan.
